# Python-TextBasedGame
A text based game created in Python for class project

#Summary
Used python to create a text based game for a class project. The game was about an adventurer wondering into an abandoned research bunker and finding out why it was left. The player needs to collect a series of items, some of which need others to be collected first, before being able to complete the game. The main 'brains' of the game was a nested dictionary. The outer dictionary contained all the rooms of the bunker. Each room contained a nested dictionary that contained all the information about said room, including the lore. The program would reference the dictionary any time it needed information. The nested dictionary itself is quite easy to understand and it would be relatively easy to add code so the player could create their own rooms. Being able to detect where those rooms are would be quite difficult though. (I/E If the room can actually fit there)


One thing I did well was the nested dictionary and detecting needed items. In my game, I have items that require other items. (Uncharged battery -> charged battery) The game needs to detect if the item is needed to complete the game. I was having a difficult time trying to get it right. Firstly, I just created a lot of if statements and I could have created the list within the code by hard coding in the items. However, this isn't what I wanted as I wanted to be able to add rooms on the fly and not worry about changing anything. (I like to keep my code modular) After a while, I simply added another element to the nested dictionary called 'Bacon Item.' At the beginning of the program, the code would build a list based on the answer to 'Bacon Item.' If it was a Y, it would be added to the list. If an N, then it wouldn't be. 

The skills I gathered while writing the program was actually for nested dictionaries. I knew about them, but I was always confused about it. Going through Python made it click in my head and I love dictionaries now. It's a great way to store a lot of dialogue and story. As I was talking about it before, being able to allow the user to create their own rooms would be a great addition to the project. I'm actively thinking about it as I type this. The only issue is if I'm going to add it, I would want to add a checker for room position. This would add a lot more code and time to the processing, as it would have to check the position of every room against it to make sure there's no conflicts. 
